---
date: 2024-01-24
location: in Vancouver
---

## Location

I just moved to Vancouver, Canada. I'm here on a working holiday visa for two years with my partner Annesah. We're currently in an Airbnb in X̱ats'alanexw (Kitsilano) while we look for a more permanent place to live. Any recommendations for neighbourhoods to live in would be greatly appreciated. Must have good coffee and decent vegan food!

## Work

I don't have a job lined up yet, but I'm looking for a frontend or product design role. I'm interested in roles where I can do a bit of both, but I'm open to either. I value working with a team that just gets on and ships things, so early-stage startups are ideal, or at least companies with that kind of culture.

[View my work history](/cv)

## Refrakt

For the last year, I've been working on [Refrakt](https://refrakt.app), a platform for photographers to share their work. It combines my love of photography, design, and engineering. I'm really enjoying learning some software engineering concepts in more depth. It's hard work building it all by myself, but it's very rewarding and I can't wait to see where it goes.

## Hobbies and interests

Over the summer of 2023, I went on a pottery course back in the UK. I loved it! It was so nice making something with my hands instead of a keyboard and mouse. Something about being away from a screen was also lovely. I haven't done much research yet, but I'd love to do another course here in Vancouver. Eventually I'd like to make some small wares for myself, and new friends I make here. If you know of any calm studios for hire in Vancouver, please let me know!
