---
date: 2024-05-15
location: in Vancouver
---

## Location

I moved to Vancouver in January 2024. My partner Annesah and I have been exploring the city and beyond. We've circled back to where we first landed in X̱ats'alanexw (Kitsilano), and we're enjoying it loads. The sun is currently out, the flowers are blooming, and we're close to the beach. It's actually a little like our old hometown in the UK, but with the mountains in the distance.

## Practice

I've been getting out and taking more photos recently. More than I care to process. I've been posting the ones I like the most to my profile on [Refrakt](https://refrakt.app/sk). I've found it's been a great way to get to know Vancouver. I wander out for an hour most days with my GRIII in my pocket, no real direction, just going down new streets. It feels good to be shooting more than I have the last few years, and I'm starting to see more themes in what I shoot, or at least I'm paying more attention to them.

## Work

I've joined the team at [Future Primitive](https://futureprimitive.xyz) here in Vancouver. I'm working on a new product called [Perma](https://www.per.ma/) which is going to be really fun. It's also my first legit software engineering role since I transitioned away from product design. It feels nice to be back in a team environment instead of solo.

## Refrakt

For the last year, I've been working on [Refrakt](https://refrakt.app), a platform for photographers to share their work. It combines my love of photography, design, and engineering. I'm really enjoying learning some software engineering concepts in more depth. It's hard work building it all by myself, but it's very rewarding and I can't wait to see where it goes.

## Hobbies and interests

Over the summer of 2023, I went on a pottery course back in the UK. I loved it! It was so nice making something with my hands instead of a keyboard and mouse. Something about being away from a screen was also lovely. I haven't done much research yet, but I'd love to do another course here in Vancouver. Eventually I'd like to make some small wares for myself, and new friends I make here. If you know of any calm studios for hire in Vancouver, please let me know!